docs/source/benchmarking.rst, before:

Benchmarking
=====================

MagTrack ships with a small benchmarking harness that exercises each module in
``benchmarks/`` and records both CPU and GPU timings (when CuPy is installed).
The workflow is driven by :mod:`benchmarks.run_all`, which discovers every
callable whose name starts with ``benchmark_`` and measures it with repeat
executions.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/7jameslondon/MagTrack/refs/heads/master/assets/benchmarks.png
   :alt: Benchmark Results Graph
   :align: center

Running the orchestrator
------------------------

First make sure Matplotlib is available by installing the benchmarking extra
dependencies::

   pip install .[benchmark]

If you also want to collect GPU measurements, include one of the ``cuXX``
extras (for example ``.[benchmark,cu12]``) so the appropriate CuPy wheel is
installed.

Once the dependencies are in place you can launch the orchestrator directly
from the project root with the convenience script::

   benchmark-magtrack

The command prints a short progress log while it imports benchmark modules and
runs their ``benchmark_*`` functions. CPU timings are always collected. GPU
measurements appear automatically when CuPy can access at least one CUDA
device.

System metadata and log layout
------------------------------

Each invocation gathers host information so historical runs can be compared on
equal footing. The metadata includes the hostname, operating system, CPU and
memory (via :mod:`psutil` when available), GPU model details (via CuPy), the
Python implementation, and installed versions of ``magtrack``, ``numpy``,
``scipy``, and any distribution whose name contains ``cupy`` (for example,
``cupy-cuda12x``). The results are stored as JSON inside::

   benchmarks/logs/<system-id>/<timestamp>/results.json

``<system-id>`` combines the hostname, operating system, machine architecture,
and Python version. ``<timestamp>`` is a UTC time formatted as
``YYYYMMDDTHHMMSSZ``. These deterministic names make it easy to check the logs
into version control if desired.

Aggregated history
------------------

After each run the orchestrator refreshes ``benchmarks/logs/combined_results.csv``
with a flat table of every successful benchmark measurement. This CSV is
suitable for importing into pandas, spreadsheets, or other analysis tools. Use
it to look for long-term trends or regressions beyond the visual summary
produced by the plotting helper.

Interpreting the runtime plot
-----------------------------

Once the logs are written the orchestrator calls
:func:`benchmarks.plot_benchmarks.plot_benchmark_history`. The function loads
all historical entries, computes the average runtime for each
benchmark/backend pair, and then renders a grouped bar chart where every bar is
the *average* runtime recorded on a particular system. All values are plotted
*relative* to the cross-system mean so numbers above ``1.0`` indicate that a
machine typically runs that benchmark slower than the overall average, while
values below ``1.0`` are faster. The system that produced the most recent run
is highlighted with a bold outline, and a dashed horizontal line at ``1.0``
marks the long-term average so deviations stand out clearly. To make it easy to
spot how the latest execution compares against its host's historical average,
an additional dashed outline overlays the exact measurements from the newest
run.

If Matplotlib is running in a non-interactive environment the figure object is
still returned, allowing you to save it manually (for example with
``figure.savefig("latest_benchmarks.png")``).

Publishing benchmark results
----------------------------

MagTrack welcomes contributions that track performance trends over time. When
you want to share a new set of logs, follow the same Git workflow you would for
code changes:

1. Run the orchestrator and confirm the results appear under
   ``benchmarks/logs/<system-id>/<timestamp>``.
2. Create a new branch and stage the generated artifacts::

      git checkout -b benchmark/<short-description>
      git add benchmarks/logs

3. Commit the changes with a message that summarizes the run, including any
   noteworthy hardware or software details::

      git commit -m "Add benchmark results from <system-id> (<date>)"

4. Push your branch and open a pull request against ``main``. Publish the
   branch to your fork (or the upstream repository, if you have permission)
   with::

      git push -u origin benchmark/<short-description>

   Then visit the repository on GitHub, click **Compare & pull request**, and
   target ``main``. In the PR body, mention the date of the run, the hardware
   you used, and any observations that might help reviewers interpret the
   numbers.

Following these steps keeps benchmarking history transparent and makes it easy
for maintainers to review and merge performance data alongside code updates.

Commit message:

refactor: split benchmark package into subpackages

docs/source/benchmarking.rst, after:

Benchmarking
=====================

MagTrack ships with a small benchmarking harness that exercises each module in
``benchmarks/speed`` and records both CPU and GPU timings (when CuPy is
installed). The workflow is driven by :mod:`benchmarks.speed.run_all`, which
discovers every callable whose name starts with ``benchmark_`` and measures it
with repeat executions. The :mod:`benchmarks.accuracy` package is reserved for
future localization accuracy suites while keeping the existing runtime
benchmarks unchanged.

.. image:: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/7jameslondon/MagTrack/refs/heads/master/assets/benchmarks.png
   :alt: Benchmark Results Graph
   :align: center

Running the orchestrator
------------------------

First make sure Matplotlib is available by installing the benchmarking extra
dependencies::

   pip install .[benchmark]

If you also want to collect GPU measurements, include one of the ``cuXX``
extras (for example ``.[benchmark,cu12]``) so the appropriate CuPy wheel is
installed.

Once the dependencies are in place you can launch the orchestrator directly
from the project root with the convenience script::

   benchmark-magtrack

The same run can be started explicitly with ``python -m benchmarks.run_all``,
which now dispatches to :mod:`benchmarks.speed.run_all` under the hood while
preserving the existing CLI experience.

The command prints a short progress log while it imports benchmark modules and
runs their ``benchmark_*`` functions. CPU timings are always collected. GPU
measurements appear automatically when CuPy can access at least one CUDA
device.

System metadata and log layout
------------------------------

Each invocation gathers host information so historical runs can be compared on
equal footing. The metadata includes the hostname, operating system, CPU and
memory (via :mod:`psutil` when available), GPU model details (via CuPy), the
Python implementation, and installed versions of ``magtrack``, ``numpy``,
``scipy``, and any distribution whose name contains ``cupy`` (for example,
``cupy-cuda12x``). The results are stored as JSON inside::

   benchmarks/logs/<system-id>/<timestamp>/results.json

``<system-id>`` combines the hostname, operating system, machine architecture,
and Python version. ``<timestamp>`` is a UTC time formatted as
``YYYYMMDDTHHMMSSZ``. These deterministic names make it easy to check the logs
into version control if desired.

Aggregated history
------------------

After each run the orchestrator refreshes ``benchmarks/logs/combined_results.csv``
with a flat table of every successful benchmark measurement. This CSV is
suitable for importing into pandas, spreadsheets, or other analysis tools. Use
it to look for long-term trends or regressions beyond the visual summary
produced by the plotting helper.

Interpreting the runtime plot
-----------------------------

Once the logs are written the orchestrator calls
:func:`benchmarks.speed.plot_benchmarks.plot_benchmark_history`. The function loads
all historical entries, computes the average runtime for each
benchmark/backend pair, and then renders a grouped bar chart where every bar is
the *average* runtime recorded on a particular system. All values are plotted
*relative* to the cross-system mean so numbers above ``1.0`` indicate that a
machine typically runs that benchmark slower than the overall average, while
values below ``1.0`` are faster. The system that produced the most recent run
is highlighted with a bold outline, and a dashed horizontal line at ``1.0``
marks the long-term average so deviations stand out clearly. To make it easy to
spot how the latest execution compares against its host's historical average,
an additional dashed outline overlays the exact measurements from the newest
run.

If Matplotlib is running in a non-interactive environment the figure object is
still returned, allowing you to save it manually (for example with
``figure.savefig("latest_benchmarks.png")``).

Publishing benchmark results
----------------------------

MagTrack welcomes contributions that track performance trends over time. When
you want to share a new set of logs, follow the same Git workflow you would for
code changes:

1. Run the orchestrator and confirm the results appear under
   ``benchmarks/logs/<system-id>/<timestamp>``.
2. Create a new branch and stage the generated artifacts::

      git checkout -b benchmark/<short-description>
      git add benchmarks/logs

3. Commit the changes with a message that summarizes the run, including any
   noteworthy hardware or software details::

      git commit -m "Add benchmark results from <system-id> (<date>)"

4. Push your branch and open a pull request against ``main``. Publish the
   branch to your fork (or the upstream repository, if you have permission)
   with::

      git push -u origin benchmark/<short-description>

   Then visit the repository on GitHub, click **Compare & pull request**, and
   target ``main``. In the PR body, mention the date of the run, the hardware
   you used, and any observations that might help reviewers interpret the
   numbers.

Following these steps keeps benchmarking history transparent and makes it easy
for maintainers to review and merge performance data alongside code updates.
